---
title: M/01
fullname: M/01 Desert version
nickname: T/99
family: flecktarn
terrain: desert
country: dk
image: m01.jpg
cover: m01-cover.jpg
---
It is a 3 colour camouflage pattern, similar in design to the Danish M/84 pattern. It is considered to be the desert counterpart of M/84, and consists of different colors better suited for arid climates. The uniform contains splotches of earthy red and dark green on a sand-coloured background.

History
-------
The first version of T/99 was trialled in 1999 and issued in 2000 to Danish personnel attached to the Multinational High Readiness Standby Brigade for United Nations Operations. These service personnel were dispatched to Africa under the United Nations banner to enforce and uphold a ceasefire line between the nations of Eritrea and Ethiopia, as part of the United Nations mission in these two countries.

Danish soldier (on right) wearing a T/99 patterned uniform in Kabul, Afghanistan.
In 2001, the pattern was further researched and improved upon, with a new variant coming into existence later that same year. The new variant, known as Kampuniform M/01 Ørken (desert) was first seen on members of the Danish ISAF contingent. The desert camouflage uniform is issued in relatively small quantities, and only to troops actually deploying to Afghanistan.

While T/99 is rumoured to be a modified variant of German Desert Flecktarn (Tropentarn) camouflage, it is actually a recoloured variant of the original Danish M84 Pletsløring (spot camouflage) pattern, in which earthy red has replaced black, dark green has replaced light green, and the sand colour has replaced the olive green of the original M/84.

Sources
-------
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M84_camouflage_pattern)
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/T99_(camouflage))
